### Global trash issues
Increasingly in our modern age we are relying on plastic products all throughout our lives for food packaging, electronic devices, consumer products, etc. In the 1960s plastics made up less than 1% of municipal solid waste, by 2005 this number rose to 10% (Jambeck). Plastics are particularly difficult to dispose of, because, unlike other forms of waste, they are difficult to recycle and take a very long time to naturally break down. Today only about 10% of plastics are recycled, the rest are either being stored in landfills or released into the environment. Over one third of this waste (Sigler)
### Animals
Perhaps the most widely understood issue with plastic waste is the way it hurts the other animals living on our planet. Over 270 species have been identified as being harmed or killed by plastic waste. This is especially prevalent in marine species where over 60% of ocean waste is composed of plastic. When ingested plastic can block animals’ ability to properly digest food, which can hinder growth or even cause death. Bird have been observed regurgitating the plastics stuck in their stomach when they are trying to feed their hatchlings. The effects on sea turtles are even worse, over 86% of sea turtle species are known to be harmed by plastic waste. Specifically, the Leatherback Sea Turtles are now on the critically endangered list because of how many have died in recent years. (Sigler)
### The Environment
Human produced waste doesn't only affect animals, it is also affecting our environment. Post-consumer waste produces about 5% of total greenhouse gas emissions each year, with methane from poorly managed landfills making up a large proportion of this. Uncollected waste can even build up in local waterways, causing flooding and water contamination (Hoornweg). Even in places where waste is being recycled such as Agbogloshie, an electronic processing site in Ghana, soil concentrations of lead, barium, copper, and chromium were far above regulatory limits in other countries. (Yang)
### People
The waste humans produce Solid waste management costs $200 billion a year, not accounting for the waste that isn't properly managed. (Hoornweg) Waste is usually managed on the municipal level, which isn't an issue for most cities in developed nations but can make up the single largest budgetary item for cities in developing countries. (Hoornweg)

Beyond cost, waste can cause health risks both through collected and uncollected waste. Uncollected waste can provide food and shelter to disease carriers such as rodents and insects. This can even happen with waste waiting to be collected if it isn't stored in a weatherproof container. (Hoornweg) Collected waste can also harm humans if proper precautions are not met. High concentrations of lead have been found in the blood and breastmilk of recyclers working in landfills.

Fortunately, many of these risks are minimized in developed nations where environmental and health laws provide protection for consumers and workers. However, the main reason that developed nations can avoid the adverse conditions associated with waste is that they are heavily exporting it to undeveloped nations. While collection and recycling rates can appear to remain high, these issues have simply been exported to developing nations. Over 70% of OECD plastic waste was exported to Asian countries such as China and Indonesia. (Barnes) Europe exports 87% of their plastic to China for recycling, and the United States and Japan rely nearly exclusively on China to recycle their plastic. (Liu) These exports are financially viable because of the more relaxed environmental laws in developing nations. 
### Uncollected waste
*While the world as whole needs to find solutions to waste management in general, uncollected waste has the highest impact on the environment* (no source) Only about 20% of waste in the ocean is from fishing and shipping, the other 80% originated on land as uncollected waste and made its way into the oceans. It is estimated that a large collection of trash in the Pacific Ocean is now twice the size of Texas and extends down 100 feet below the ocean surface. (Sigler) Significant investment needs to be made in waste clean-up activities, especially in highly polluted developing nations where the import of waste has overwhelmed their management strategies. 
### Neural networks

### Thesis: goal of this research
Because of these advances in machine object recognition and the increasing need to find innovative solutions to waste collection, it is the goal of this research to identify where uncollected trash is located. The dataset our model will be trained and tested on is a public release of Google Street View images from Manhattan and Pittsburg. (StreetLearn) Using the total amount of trash detected in these images combined with the geolocation of the camera, we will be generating a heatmap of trash levels throughout these two areas. These maps could be used by nonprofit groups or governmental organizations to find concentrations of trash for cleanup, or to inventory litter over time.
